SUPABASE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md, before:

# Supabase Integration Guide

## Overview

This guide documents the integration of Supabase with the sales calls feature in your Next.js SaaS application. The integration maintains existing Clerk authentication while adding real database operations.

## ✅ Completed Tasks

### 1. Supabase Client Setup

- **Browser client**: `/src/lib/supabase/client.ts`
- **Server client**: `/src/lib/supabase/server.ts`
- Both follow Supabase SSR best practices

### 2. Middleware Integration

- **File**: `/src/middleware.ts`
- Integrates Supabase auth alongside Clerk auth
- Uses proper cookie handling for SSR

### 3. Database Schema & Types

- **Types**: `/src/lib/types/database.ts`
- **Migration**: `/supabase/migrations/001_create_sales_calls_table.sql`
- **Setup SQL**: `/setup-database.sql` (ready to run in Supabase dashboard)

### 4. Server Actions (CRUD Operations)

- **File**: `/src/lib/actions/sales-calls.ts`
- ✅ `getSalesCalls()` - Fetch user's sales calls
- ✅ `createSalesCall()` - Add new sales call
- ✅ `updateSalesCall()` - Edit existing sales call
- ✅ `deleteSalesCall()` - Remove sales call

### 5. UI Components

- **Dialog component**: `/src/components/ui/dialog.tsx`
- **Select component**: `/src/components/ui/select.tsx`
- **Add dialog**: `/src/components/sales-calls/add-sales-call-dialog.tsx`
- **Actions menu**: `/src/components/sales-calls/sales-call-actions.tsx`

### 6. Main Page Integration

- **File**: `/src/app/(protected)/sales-calls/page.tsx`
- ✅ Replaced mock data with real database calls
- ✅ Added real-time statistics calculation
- ✅ Integrated add/edit/delete functionality
- ✅ Fixed all compilation errors

## 🔄 Next Steps to Complete Integration

### 1. Create Database Table

Execute the SQL in `/setup-database.sql` in your Supabase dashboard:

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to SQL Editor
3. Copy and paste the contents of `setup-database.sql`
4. Execute the query

This will create:

- `sales_calls` table with proper schema
- Row Level Security (RLS) policies
- Performance indexes
- Auto-updating `updated_at` trigger

### 2. Environment Variables

Ensure these are set in your `.env.local`:

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

### 3. User ID Mapping

**Important**: The current implementation uses Clerk's `userId` to associate sales calls with users. You need to ensure:

1. Users are authenticated through Clerk
2. The `user_id` field in the database stores Clerk user IDs
3. RLS policies work with Clerk authentication

**Alternative Approach**: If you want to use Supabase auth instead of Clerk, you'll need to:

- Update RLS policies to use `auth.uid()`
- Modify server actions to use Supabase auth
- Update middleware authentication flow

### 4. Test the Integration

1. **Start the application**:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Navigate to sales calls page**: `http://localhost:3000/sales-calls`

3. **Test functionality**:
   - View empty state initially
   - Add new sales calls using the "+" button
   - Edit existing calls using the actions menu
   - Delete calls and confirm they're removed
   - Verify statistics update correctly

### 5. Data Migration (Optional)

If you have existing mock data you want to preserve:

1. Export current mock data
2. Transform it to match the database schema
3. Insert via Supabase dashboard or create a migration script

## 📊 Database Schema

```sql
CREATE TABLE sales_calls (
  id UUID DEFAULT gen_random_uuid() PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id TEXT NOT NULL,
  date DATE NOT NULL,
  time TEXT NOT NULL,
  customer TEXT NOT NULL,
  duration TEXT NOT NULL,
  sentiment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'neutral',
  ai_processing_progress INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'Processing',
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT timezone('utc'::text, now()) NOT NULL,
  updated_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT timezone('utc'::text, now()) NOT NULL
);
```

## 🔧 Component Architecture

### AddSalesCallDialog

- Form-based dialog for adding new sales calls
- Client-side validation
- Loading states
- Automatic form reset on success

### SalesCallActions

- Dropdown menu with edit/delete options
- Inline editing via dialog
- Confirmation dialog for deletion
- Optimistic updates

### Main Page Features

- Real-time statistics calculation
- Empty state handling
- Responsive table layout
- Proper error boundaries

## 🚀 Features Implemented

- ✅ **CRUD Operations**: Full create, read, update, delete functionality
- ✅ **User Isolation**: Each user sees only their own data
- ✅ **Real-time Stats**: Calculated from actual database data
- ✅ **Responsive UI**: Works on desktop and mobile
- ✅ **Loading States**: Proper UX during async operations
- ✅ **Error Handling**: Graceful error management
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript integration
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized queries with indexes

## 🎨 UI/UX Features

- **Modern Design**: Clean, professional interface
- **Intuitive Actions**: Clear add/edit/delete workflows
- **Responsive Layout**: Works across screen sizes
- **Loading Indicators**: Visual feedback for async operations
- **Empty States**: Helpful guidance when no data exists
- **Form Validation**: Client-side validation for better UX

## 📝 Notes

- All server actions include proper error handling
- RLS policies ensure data security
- Components follow shadcn/ui patterns
- Code is fully typed with TypeScript
- Build process validates all types and linting rules

The integration is now complete and ready for testing once the database table is created in Supabase!

Commit message:

Removes RLS and adds local Supabase development setup
Disables Row Level Security in favor of server-side authorization with Clerk to resolve authentication conflicts. Authorization is now handled entirely through server actions that filter data by Clerk user IDs.

Adds comprehensive local development environment with Supabase CLI configuration, enabling developers to run the full stack locally with proper database migrations and seeding.

Updates documentation with troubleshooting guide for common RLS and authentication issues, and refines gitignore patterns for better environment file handling.

SUPABASE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md, after:

# Supabase Integration Guide

## Overview

This guide documents the integration of Supabase with the sales calls feature in your Next.js SaaS application. The integration maintains existing Clerk authentication while adding real database operations.

## ✅ Completed Tasks

### 1. Supabase Client Setup

- **Browser client**: `/src/lib/supabase/client.ts`
- **Server client**: `/src/lib/supabase/server.ts`
- Both follow Supabase SSR best practices

### 2. Middleware Integration

- **File**: `/src/middleware.ts`
- Integrates Supabase auth alongside Clerk auth
- Uses proper cookie handling for SSR

### 3. Database Schema & Types

- **Types**: `/src/lib/types/database.ts`
- **Migration**: `/supabase/migrations/001_create_sales_calls_table.sql`
- **Setup SQL**: `/setup-database.sql` (ready to run in Supabase dashboard)

### 4. Server Actions (CRUD Operations)

- **File**: `/src/lib/actions/sales-calls.ts`
- ✅ `getSalesCalls()` - Fetch user's sales calls
- ✅ `createSalesCall()` - Add new sales call
- ✅ `updateSalesCall()` - Edit existing sales call
- ✅ `deleteSalesCall()` - Remove sales call

### 5. UI Components

- **Dialog component**: `/src/components/ui/dialog.tsx`
- **Select component**: `/src/components/ui/select.tsx`
- **Add dialog**: `/src/components/sales-calls/add-sales-call-dialog.tsx`
- **Actions menu**: `/src/components/sales-calls/sales-call-actions.tsx`

### 6. Main Page Integration

- **File**: `/src/app/(protected)/sales-calls/page.tsx`
- ✅ Replaced mock data with real database calls
- ✅ Added real-time statistics calculation
- ✅ Integrated add/edit/delete functionality
- ✅ Fixed all compilation errors

## 🔄 Next Steps to Complete Integration

### 1. Create Database Table

Execute the SQL in `/setup-database.sql` in your Supabase dashboard:

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to SQL Editor
3. Copy and paste the contents of `setup-database.sql`
4. Execute the query

**If you encounter RLS (Row Level Security) errors:**

- Execute the SQL in `/fix-rls-issue.sql` to disable RLS
- Our implementation uses server-side authorization with Clerk instead

This will create:

- `sales_calls` table with proper schema
- Performance indexes
- Auto-updating `updated_at` trigger
- Proper authorization handled by server actions

### 2. Environment Variables

Ensure these are set in your `.env.local`:

```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

### 3. User ID Mapping

**Important**: The current implementation uses Clerk's `userId` to associate sales calls with users. You need to ensure:

1. Users are authenticated through Clerk
2. The `user_id` field in the database stores Clerk user IDs
3. RLS policies work with Clerk authentication

**Alternative Approach**: If you want to use Supabase auth instead of Clerk, you'll need to:

- Update RLS policies to use `auth.uid()`
- Modify server actions to use Supabase auth
- Update middleware authentication flow

### 4. Test the Integration

1. **Start the application**:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Navigate to sales calls page**: `http://localhost:3000/sales-calls`

3. **Test functionality**:
   - View empty state initially
   - Add new sales calls using the "+" button
   - Edit existing calls using the actions menu
   - Delete calls and confirm they're removed
   - Verify statistics update correctly

### 5. Data Migration (Optional)

If you have existing mock data you want to preserve:

1. Export current mock data
2. Transform it to match the database schema
3. Insert via Supabase dashboard or create a migration script

## 📊 Database Schema

```sql
CREATE TABLE sales_calls (
  id UUID DEFAULT gen_random_uuid() PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id TEXT NOT NULL,
  date DATE NOT NULL,
  time TEXT NOT NULL,
  customer TEXT NOT NULL,
  duration TEXT NOT NULL,
  sentiment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'neutral',
  ai_processing_progress INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'Processing',
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT timezone('utc'::text, now()) NOT NULL,
  updated_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT timezone('utc'::text, now()) NOT NULL
);
```

## 🔧 Component Architecture

### AddSalesCallDialog

- Form-based dialog for adding new sales calls
- Client-side validation
- Loading states
- Automatic form reset on success

### SalesCallActions

- Dropdown menu with edit/delete options
- Inline editing via dialog
- Confirmation dialog for deletion
- Optimistic updates

### Main Page Features

- Real-time statistics calculation
- Empty state handling
- Responsive table layout
- Proper error boundaries

## 🚀 Features Implemented

- ✅ **CRUD Operations**: Full create, read, update, delete functionality
- ✅ **User Isolation**: Each user sees only their own data
- ✅ **Real-time Stats**: Calculated from actual database data
- ✅ **Responsive UI**: Works on desktop and mobile
- ✅ **Loading States**: Proper UX during async operations
- ✅ **Error Handling**: Graceful error management
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript integration
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized queries with indexes

## 🎨 UI/UX Features

- **Modern Design**: Clean, professional interface
- **Intuitive Actions**: Clear add/edit/delete workflows
- **Responsive Layout**: Works across screen sizes
- **Loading Indicators**: Visual feedback for async operations
- **Empty States**: Helpful guidance when no data exists
- **Form Validation**: Client-side validation for better UX

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### RLS Policy Error

If you see an error like `"new row violates row-level security policy for table 'sales_calls'"`:

1. **Run the fix script**: Execute `/fix-rls-issue.sql` in your Supabase SQL editor
2. **Verify RLS is disabled**: The table should be accessible without RLS restrictions
3. **Security note**: Our server actions handle authorization by filtering with Clerk user IDs

### Authentication Issues

- Ensure Clerk is properly configured and users are authenticated
- Check that `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` are set
- Verify the middleware is processing both Clerk and Supabase auth correctly

### Database Connection

- Confirm Supabase project is active and accessible
- Test connection by running a simple query in the Supabase dashboard
- Check that the `sales_calls` table exists and has the correct schema

## 📝 Notes

- All server actions include proper error handling
- RLS policies ensure data security
- Components follow shadcn/ui patterns
- Code is fully typed with TypeScript
- Build process validates all types and linting rules

The integration is now complete and ready for testing once the database table is created in Supabase!
